feat(mvux): Added Advanced page 🚧 (#1398)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Overview/Mvux/Advanced/Commands.md

---

# Commands

## Commands recap

In the [overview](xref:Overview.Mvux.Overview) you've seen a brief introduction on how a method in the Model gets generated as a command in the Bindable Proxy Model.

## Asynchronous commands

The [`AsyncCommand`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/AsyncCommand.cs) class, is a Command that implements [`ICommand`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.windows.input.icommand) and adds support for asynchronous operations.  
As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound from the View as a regular Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property). The advantage is that it can be invoked asynchronously.  
In addition it also implements [`INotifyPropertyChanged`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.inotifypropertychanged), to enable tracking if its properties have changed, and `ILoadable` - an Uno interface that provides information of an objects state whether it's currently in execution mode or not.

![](../Assets/Commands-2.jpg)

## Creating commands

There are several methods of how to create an MVUX command.

1. Using code generation

>     As demonstrated in previous tutorials, when creating a method in the Model, it will be generated as an `AsyncCommand` in the Bindable Model.

Reviewer: Don't assume that these will be read in sync. Just say "When creating a method....

    
    Command generation rules:
    

>      - Any parameter that has a type and name matching a Feed or a State in this Model will be evaluated when the Command is invoked and its current latest value will be passed in as an argument.  

Reviewer: Add an example after this point.

     You'll find this feature to be very powerful in invoking commands by combining data from various Feeds in addition to a command parameter received from the View.    
     - Can be either synchronous or asynchronous
     - Can have one `CancellationToken` as its last parameter, but it's not mandatory.

     > [!TIP]  
     > You can explicitly match a parameter with a Feed even the names don't match by decorating the parameter with the `FeedParameter` attribute:  
     >
     > ```csharp
     > public IFeed<string> Message { get; }
     > 
     > public async ValueTask Share([FeedParameter(nameof(Message))] string msg)
     > {
     > }
     > ```

     > [!TIP]  

>      > You can also opt in or out of implicit matching of Feeds and command parameters by the decorating the current assembly or class with the `ImplicitFeedCommandParameters` attribute:  

Reviewer 2: To answer : yes you can add the `[CommandAttribute](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/CommandAttribute.cs)` on the method.

@weitzhandler we should add this to the doc

    This class provides factory methods for creating commands.

    - Async

    ```csharp
    public ICommand MyCommand => Command.Async(async(ct) => await PingServer(ct));
    ```

    > [!Note]  
    > You need not worry about the `=>` operator and that the `Command.Async` will be called over and over, this value is cached and will only be called once.  
    The benefit of using `=>` in place of traditional `{ get; } = ...`, is that local methods are accessible (otherwise these would have been required to be intialized in the constructor).

    - `Create` & `Create<T>`;

    To create a command you can use the fluent API of `ICommandBuilder` provided in the `Command.Create` factory methods, which provides the following three methods:

    - Given - This method takes a Feed (or a State!) and configures a command which will be triggered whenever a new value is available to the Feed.

        ```csharp
        public IFeed<int> PageCount => ...

        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create(builder => builder.Given(PageCount));
        ```

>     - When - Limits the command execution to a set prerequisite - in other words sets the 'can execute' of the command.

Author: The answer is no, the only thing that's checked is that the parameter type matches the one in the method.
I've opened [this issue](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/issues/1396) so that MVUX also supports implicit CanExecute hook up.

Anyway, this section talks about explicit command creation using `Command.Create`, the section above discusses generated commands and mentions how `CanExecute` only works when parameter type matches.

        ```csharp
        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create<int>(builder => builder.When(i => i > 10));
        ```

    - Then - Sets the actual asynchronous callback to be invoked when the Command is executed. This method will be genereric if there's a preceding parameter setting (via Given or When).

        ```csharp
        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create(builder => builder.Then(async ct => await ExecuteMyCommand(ct)));
        ```

    Here's a complete example:

    ```csharp
    public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => 
        Command.Create(builder => 
            builder
            .Given(CurrentPage)
            .When(currentPage => currentPage > 0)
            .Then(async (currentPage, ct) => await NavigateToPage(currentPage, ct)));
    ```

> 

Reviewer: Can you expand on why/when you should use factory instead of auto generation of command?

Author: @dr1rrb I would need your help on this.

Author: I've changed the description on line 138 to clarify that the recommended way is code generation.

1. Using factory methods

    Adding Commands via code generation is sufficient enough to probably cover all scenarios. However sometimes you'd want to fine-grain your Commands and declare them in an explicit manner.  
    Commands can be built manually using the static class [`Command`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/Command.cs).  
    This class provides factory methods for creating commands.

Author: @dr1rrb it's encouraging that u say "yet", it means that you're planning to implement it 🍻💥

---
uid: Overview.Mvux.Advanced.Commands
---

# Commands

> ## Commands recap

Reviewer: I don't think this recap is necesary - this doc should be standalone for commands

In the [overview](xref:Overview.Mvux.Overview) you've seen a brief introduction to how a method in the Model gets generated as a command in the Bindable Proxy Model.

> 

Reviewer: Let's start this section with a description of what ICommand is, and why it's useful for data binding (ie to bind to Command property on a Button).
Then we can talk about the AsyncCommand implementation that exists in MVUX

## Asynchronous commands

The [`AsyncCommand`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/AsyncCommand.cs) class, is a Command that implements [`ICommand`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand?view=windows-app-sdk-1.3) and adds support for asynchronous operations.  
As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound from the View as a regular Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property). The advantage is that it can be invoked asynchronously.  

> In addition, it also implements [`INotifyPropertyChanged`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.inotifypropertychanged), to enable tracking if its properties have changed, and `ILoadable` - an Uno interface that provides information of an objects state whether it's currently in execution mode or not.

Reviewer: Is it the AsyncCommand that implements ILoadable?
ILoadable should link to toolkit docs

    public ValueTask DoWork();
    public ValueTask DoWork(CancellationToken ct);    
    ```

    A `DoWork` command will be generated in the Bindable Proxy Model. When that command is executed via a button-click etc., the method in the Model will be called:

    ```xml
    <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" />
    ```

    As you may have noticed, the method can be asynchronous and take a `CancellationToken`, but these are not mandatory and commands will be generated for synchronous methods as well.

    ### Adding command parameters

    An additional parameter can be added to the method, which is then assigned with the value of the `CommandParameter` received from the View. For instance, when using a Button and clicking it, the method will be called with the [`Button.CommandParameter`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.controls.primitives.buttonbase.commandparameter) value, given that the type of the value matches the method parameter type. Otherwise the command's `CanExecute` will be false thereby disabling the button:

    ```csharp
    public void DoWork(int param)
    {
        ...
    }
    ```

    ```xml

>     <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" CommandParameter="{Binding MyIntegerValue}" />

Reviewer: This isn't a great example, since the method can just access the MyIntegerValue in the model. It would be better to bind to the value of another element eg a Slider

    ```    

    Accordingly, if the `CommandParameter` type does not match the parameter type of the method, the button will remain disabled:

    ```xml

>     <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" CommandParameter="A string, not an integer" />

Author: No, can execute is invoked by the UI periodically

    ```

    Result:

    ![A disabled refresh button](../Assets/DisabledButton.jpg)
        
    ### Command generation rules:
    
     - Can be either synchronous or asynchronous (i.e. `public void`, `public async ValueTask`, or `public async Task`)
     - Any parameter that has a type and name matching a Feed or a State in this Model will be evaluated when the Command is invoked and its current latest value will be passed in as an argument.  
        You'll find this feature to be very powerful in invoking commands by combining data from various Feeds in addition to a command parameter received from the View.

        For example:

        ```csharp
        public IFeed<int> CounterValue => ...

        public void ResetCounter(int counterValue)
        {
            ...
        }
        ```

>         When the command is executed, because the parameter name `counterValue` matches a feed name in the Model, this parameter will be materialized with the actual value from the Feed when this method is called on command execution.  

Reviewer: Note that the name matching is case-insensitive

Author: I actually thought it's camel-case, but [after checking](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive.Generator/Bindables/MappedMembers/CommandFromMethod.cs#L248), you're right.

        This behavior can be controlled and configured using the [`FeedParameter`](#feedparameter-attribute) and [`ImplicitFeedCommandParameter`](#implicitfeedcommandparameter-attribute) attributes.

>      - Can have one `CancellationToken` as its last parameter, but it's not mandatory.

Reviewer: What can cause the command to be cancelled?

Author: I've spoken to @dr1rrb about this.
Also have a look at [this](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/discussions/1363).

Reviewer 2: Currently the main reason is the model being disposed (which will dispose the command). And anyway you know my opinion about this: we should never start an asynchronous operation without a `CancellationToken` :) (Even if the operation ignores it at some point to ensure coherence of the state)

Author: The question is if there's a more integrated way to cancel commands.

Reviewer: I was wondering whether there's any circumstances where the command is cancelled - @dr1rrb has answered this as it gets cancelled when the model is disposed. 
@dr1rrb does the command also get cancelled if the user clicks a button repeatedly? Perhaps something to consider in future but I'm not sure if/how this would be configurable

Author: @nickrandolph when the user clicks the button the command goes into executable mode which is meanwhile unexecutable - it appears disabled.

Author: This would require a two-state button where it has a configuarable cancellation text and acts as a cancellation button when its command is executing.

> 

Reviewer: You've covered how commands can be invoked by binding to a Command property on a control but what about event handlers. How do you connect an event (eg Control.Loaded) with a Command/Method in model?

Author: I'm not aware of this functionality, apart from either using interactivity behaviors or x:Bind to invoke method which I think is outside the scope of commands.

Author: Are you referring to [Event Binding](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/xaml-platform/x-bind-markup-extension#event-binding)?
It doesn't really have to do with MVUX commands.

Reviewer 2: This is not related to MVUX and I won't add it to the doc ... except by documenting the `x:Bind` support (which consists to disable command generation!).

Author: Added a "TIP" about it. I think that will suffice given the context.

     This can be achieved using the `ImplicitCommands` attribute. Here are some examples:

     ```csharp
     [assembly:ImplicitCommands(false)]
     
     [ImplicitCommands(true)]
     public partial record MyModel();

     [ImplicitCommands(true)]
     public void MyCommand();
     ```

     These attributes can be used interchangeably to control command generation, for example, you may choose to disable the implicit feed command parameter altogether by using the attribute with the `assembly:` prefix. You can then opt-in for specific classes or methods. You can also switch off specific classes while opting-in certain methods by decorating them with this attribute as enabled. You can choose any combination to opt-in or out of implicit command generation.

     #### FeedParameter attribute

     You can explicitly match a parameter with a Feed even if the names don't match by decorating the parameter with the `FeedParameter` attribute:  
     
     ```csharp
     public IFeed<string> Message { get; }
     
     public async ValueTask Share([FeedParameter(nameof(Message))] string msg)
     {
     }
     ```

     #### ImplicitFeedCommandParameter attribute

>      You can also opt-in or out of implicit matching of Feeds and command parameters by decorating the current assembly or class with the `ImplicitFeedCommandParameters` attribute:  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     You can also opt in or out of implicit matching of Feeds and command parameters by decorating the current assembly or class with the `ImplicitFeedCommandParameters` attribute:  
```

---
uid: Overview.Mvux.Advanced.Commands
---

# Commands

> Commands are a way to decouple the UI from the code that performs an action. This makes it easier to maintain and test your code, and it also makes your UI more flexible and adaptable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Commands are a way to decouple events in the UI from the code that performs an action. This makes it easier to maintain and test your code, and it also makes your UI more flexible and adaptable.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Commands are a way to decouple events in the UI from the code that performs an action. This makes it easier to maintain and test your code.
```

> A command is an object that implements the [`ICommand`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand) interface. This interface has two methods:

Reviewer 4: Two methods **and an event**.  If bothering to explain the methods, why not also explain the event?

> - [`Execute`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand.execute): This method is called when the command is executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [`Execute`](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand.execute): This method is called when the command is executed.
```

Reviewer 4: other links to Microsoft sites should also have the locale portion removed

- [`CanExecute`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand.canexecute): This method is invoked when the UI needs to determine if the command can be executed. It returns a boolean value indicating if the command can be executed.

Commands can be bound to UI elements. To do this, the `Command` property of the UI element can be used. For example, the following code binds the `Click` event of a button to the `Save` command:

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```xml
```

> <Button Command="Save">Save</Button>

Author: ```suggestion
<Button Command="{Binding Save}">Save</Button>
```

```

## Asynchronous commands

The MVUX [`IAsyncCommand`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/IAsyncCommand.cs) interface, is a Command that implements [`ICommand`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.input.icommand?view=windows-app-sdk-1.3) and adds support for asynchronous operations.  

> As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound from the View as a regular Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property). The advantage is that it can be invoked asynchronously.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound to anything in the View that accepts a Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property), with the advantage that it can be invoked asynchronously.  
```

Reviewer 4: I'm between two minds as to whether the advantage of UI events/commands being invoked asynchronously should be explained here.

Author: I think it should.

```suggestion
As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound to anything in the View that accepts a Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property), with the advantage over `ICommand` that `IAsyncCommand` can be invoked asynchronously.  
```

I would even emphasize that ICommand is synchronous.

Author: I think it should.

```suggestion
As it implements `ICommand`, it can be bound to anything in the View that accepts a Command (e.g. in a `Button.Command` property), with the advantage over `ICommand` that `IAsyncCommand` can be invoked asynchronously.  
```

I would even emphasize that ICommand is synchronous.

> In addition, it also implements [`INotifyPropertyChanged`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.inotifypropertychanged), to enable tracking if its properties have changed, and [`ILoadable`](xref:Toolkit.Controls.LoadingView#iloadable) - an Uno interface that provides information of an object's state whether it's currently in execution mode or not, and notifies subscribers when this state changes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition, it also implements [`INotifyPropertyChanged`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.inotifypropertychanged) ,to enable notification if any properties change, and [`ILoadable`](xref:Toolkit.Controls.LoadingView#iloadable) - an Uno interface that provides information of an object's state (such as whether it's currently in execution mode or not,) and notifies subscribers when this state changes.
```

> ![A class diagram of System.ComponentModel.ICommand inheritence structure](../Assets/Commands-2.jpg)

Reviewer 4: Any image without a specific explanation or description seems wrong.

## Creating commands

> There are several methods of how to create an MVUX command.

Reviewer 4: "There are several methods that can create an MVUX command."
or
"There are several ways to create an MVUX command."
or
"There are several methods that can be used to create an MVUX command."
read more naturally.

Author: ```suggestion
There are several methods that can be used to create an MVUX command.
```

1. Using code generation

    ### Basic commands

>     When creating a method in the Model, it will be generated as an `AsyncCommand` in the Bindable Model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    When creating a method in the Model, an `AsyncCommand` wrapper will be generated in the Bindable Model.
```

>     For example, when declaring a method of the following signatures:

Author: ```suggestion
    For example, when declaring methods with any of the following signatures:
```

    ```csharp
    public void DoWork();
    public ValueTask DoWork();
    public ValueTask DoWork(CancellationToken ct);    
    ```

>     A `DoWork` command will be generated in the Bindable Proxy Model. When that command is executed via a button-click etc., the method in the Model will be called:

Reviewer 4: Will it generate just one method in the BPM? Or 3?

Or is this saying that a `DoWork` command will be generated if **any** of the above method signatures are used?

    ```xml
    <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" />
    ```

>     As you may have noticed, the method can be asynchronous and take a `CancellationToken`, but these are not mandatory and commands will be generated for synchronous methods as well.

Reviewer 4: "As you may have noticed" is very vague.
Is it important that the reader has noticed?

This also suggests that the three `DoWork` methods defined above are showing possible options, rather than examples of three methods that can/should be implemented in the described scenario.
Making it clearer above that _any_ of the above method signatures can be used would mean this paragraph is not needed.

>     ### Adding command parameters

Reviewer 4: This heading isn't in keeping with the earlier heading at this level ("Basic commands")
"Commands that accept parameters" seems more appropriate.

Author: ```suggestion
    ### Commands that accept parameters
```

>     An additional parameter can be added to the method, which is then assigned with the value of the `CommandParameter` received from the View. For instance, when using a Button and clicking it, the method will be called with the [`Button.CommandParameter`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-app-sdk/api/winrt/microsoft.ui.xaml.controls.primitives.buttonbase.commandparameter) value, given that the type of the value matches the method parameter type. Otherwise the command's `CanExecute` will be false thereby disabling the button:

Reviewer 4: "An additional parameter can be added to the method, which is then assigned with the value of the `CommandParameter` received from the View."

I think you're trying to say:

If the method takes a parameter, this can be specified in the View by setting the `CommandParameter` property on the element which has the `Command` specified.

---

`, given that the type of the value matches the method parameter type.`

Is this really true? Is it doing Type comparison? Or is it down to the developer to ensure that the value passed is of a suitable type that is supports runtime conversion or uses a suitable converter?

---

"Otherwise the command's `CanExecute` will be false thereby disabling the button:"

Is this really true?
Does the default `CanExecute` method do runtime checking of Types that it maps to the IsEnabled property?

Reviewer 4: If I'm wrong about the above and the behavior described is correct because of a difference to how things work in MVUX (compared to MVVM), then this should be called out.

Reviewer 4: Note that the MVVM experience is a runtime exception due to a XAML parsing failure.

Rather than the button being disabled, it would be more helpful if the MVUX source generators could identify the issue at compile-time. Or, is this behavior intentional so that it can support the binding of different objects as parameters at runtime?

    ```csharp
    public void DoWork(double param)
    {
        ...
    }
    ```

> 
>     Then:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 
>     Then:

Author: ```suggestion
```

    ```xml
    <Slider x:Name="slider" Minimum="1" Maximum="100"/>
    <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" CommandParameter="{Binding Value, ElementName=slider}"/>
    ```

    Accordingly, if the `CommandParameter` type does not match the parameter type of the method, the button will remain disabled:

    ```xml
    <Button Command="{Binding DoWork}" CommandParameter="A string, not a double" />
    ```

> 

Reviewer 4: What happens if a method behind a Command accepts a parameter but no `CommandParameter` is specified? 
Is the behavior the same as in MVVM? 
Whether different or the same, that this isn't mentioned is a notable omission and make the documentation feel incomplete.

    Result:

    ![A disabled refresh button](../Assets/DisabledButton.jpg)
        
    ### Command generation rules:
    
     - Can be either synchronous or asynchronous (i.e. `public void`, `public async ValueTask`, or `public async Task`)

>      - Any parameter that has a type and name (case-insensitive) matching a Feed or a State in this Model will be evaluated when the Command is invoked and its current latest value will be passed in as an argument.  

Reviewer 4: This is really confusing. 
I thought the Model was a Feed or a State (or something that inherits from `ISignal`).
Is it necessary to use a whole model as a parameter, or can it be a property of the model?

        You'll find this feature to be very powerful in invoking commands by combining data from various Feeds in addition to a command parameter received from the View.

        For example:

        ```csharp
        public IFeed<int> CounterValue => ...

        public void ResetCounter(int counterValue)
        {
            ...
        }
        ```

>         When the command is executed, because the parameter name `counterValue` matches a feed name in the Model, this parameter will be materialized with the actual value from the Feed when this method is called on command execution.  

Reviewer 4: This adds a lot more clarity to the above. 
It looks to be matching a property of the model, rather than "a feed name in the Model".
Does the property have to be a `Feed` or a `State` (or `ISignal`) for this to work?

It also makes me wonder why this is necessary? Why not just reference the `CounterValue` from within the `ResetCounter` method? Why pass it as an argument? Especially as this example suggests that the method will update the property? Or is it treated as a ref parameter and so this is useful for some other reason?

        This behavior can be controlled and configured using the [`FeedParameter`](#feedparameter-attribute) and [`ImplicitFeedCommandParameter`](#implicitfeedcommandparameter-attribute) attributes.

     - Can have one `CancellationToken` as its last parameter, but it's not mandatory.

     > [!NOTE]  
     > Name matching of command parameters to Feeds is case-insensitive.

     > [!TIP]

>      > If you are using [Event Binding](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/xaml-platform/x-bind-markup-extension#event-binding), you might need to opt out from command generation for those methods. See the next section on how to configure command generation.

Reviewer 4: Does this also apply if using an EventToCommand type behavior to bind to vents that don't have equivalent Command properties?

>      ### Using attributes to control command generation

Reviewer 4: Headings within this group still seem inconsistent. 
I won't mention it again, but it's probably worth reviewing for all subsequent headings too.

     #### ImplicitCommands attribute

>      By default, implicit command generation is enabled by default. So that any method in the Model that matches the command criteria will be generated as a command.  

Reviewer 4: default default default default default.

Author: default default default $%^#@

>      However, you may choose to switch this off for a specific method, class, or the entire assembly.

Reviewer 4: Can this only be switched **off**, or are there ways to also switch it on?

     This can be achieved using the `ImplicitCommands` attribute. Here are some examples:

     ```csharp
     [assembly:ImplicitCommands(false)]
     
     [ImplicitCommands(true)]
     public partial record MyModel();

     [ImplicitCommands(true)]
     public void MyCommand();
     ```

>      These attributes can be used interchangeably to control command generation, for example, you may choose to disable the implicit feed command parameter altogether by using the attribute with the `assembly:` prefix. You can then opt-in for specific classes or methods. You can also switch off specific classes while opting-in certain methods by decorating them with this attribute as enabled. You can choose any combination to opt-in or out of implicit command generation.

Reviewer 4: "You can choose any combination to opt-in or out of implicit command generation"

If choosing to opt-in or out, is it still "implicit"?

     #### FeedParameter attribute

>      You can explicitly match a parameter with a Feed even if the names don't match by decorating the parameter with the `FeedParameter` attribute:  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     You can explicitly match a parameter with a Feed even if the names don't match. Do this by decorating the parameter with the `FeedParameter` attribute:  
```

Author: ```suggestion
     You can explicitly match a parameter with a Feed even if the names don't match. This can be achieved by decorating the parameter with the `FeedParameter` attribute:  
```

Reviewer 4: I don't know what (if any) style guides exist for the docs as a whole, but I do know that "This can be achieved" is an example of a phrase I've seen in guides as something _not_ to use. It's unspecific, undirected, and not encouraging action.

     
     ```csharp
     public IFeed<string> Message { get; }
     
     public async ValueTask Share([FeedParameter(nameof(Message))] string msg)
     {
     }
     ```

     #### ImplicitFeedCommandParameter attribute

>      You can also opt in or out of implicit matching of Feeds and command parameters by decorating the current assembly or class with the `ImplicitFeedCommandParameters` attribute:  

Reviewer 4: Should the be "opt-in or out"?

Verify that the hyphenation of this is consistent throughout the document.

Author: Does "opt-in or opt-out" sound better?

Reviewer 4: Across the org hyphens are used more often for "opt-in" and "opt-out" than not.
I flagged this here because of inconsistencies in a single document.

In this instance, I'd personally opt for "You can also opt in to or out of the implicit matching of Feeds....." - I know this doesn't use a hyphen, but one would not be appropriate here.

     
     ```csharp
     [assembly:ImplicitFeedCommandParameter(false)]
     
     [ImplicitFeedCommandParameter(true)]
     public partial record MyModel
     ```

>      Like `ImplicitCommands`, these can also be nested to opt-in or out sections specific sections of the app.

Reviewer 4: too many "sections"?

Author: ```suggestion
     Like `ImplicitCommands`, `ImplicitFeedCommandParameter` attributes can also be nested to enable or disable specific scopes of the app.
```

Reviewer 4: "in the app." or "within the app." at the end.

1. Using factory methods

    Adding Commands via code generation is sufficient enough to probably cover all scenarios. However, sometimes you'd want to fine-grain your Commands and declare them in an explicit manner.  
    Commands can be built manually using the static class [`Command`](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/blob/main/src/Uno.Extensions.Reactive/Presentation/Commands/Command.cs).  
    This class provides factory methods for creating commands.

    - Async

    ```csharp
    public ICommand MyCommand => Command.Async(async(ct) => await PingServer(ct));
    ```

>     > [!Note]  

Reviewer 4: Rather than add a note to address possible misunderstandings in the code sample, why not describe the method and how it should be used?

>     > You need not worry about the `=>` operator and that the `Command.Async` will be called over and over, this value is cached and will only be called once.  

Reviewer 4: There are two "`=>`" operators in the above example. To which does this refer?

    The benefit of using `=>` in place of traditional `{ get; } = ...`, is that local methods are accessible (otherwise these would have been required to be initialized in the constructor).

    - `Create` & `Create<T>`;

>     To create a command you can use the fluent API of `ICommandBuilder` provided in the `Command.Create` factory methods, which provides the following three methods:

Reviewer 4: This sentence only made sense after I'd read the following section (down to the diagram) several times!

>     - Given - This method takes a Feed (or a State!) and configures a command which will be triggered whenever a new value is available to the Feed.

Reviewer 4: heading should be further indented?

        ```csharp
        public IFeed<int> PageCount => ...

        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create(builder => builder.Given(PageCount));
        ```

>     - When - Limits the command execution to a set prerequisite - in other words, sets the 'can execute' of the command.

Reviewer 4: The use of hyphens in this line is inconsistent with the rest of the document.

>     - When - Limits the command execution to a set prerequisite - in other words, sets the 'can execute' of the command.

Reviewer 4: Is this actually setting the `CanExecute` property of the command? Or doing something comparable?

The use of "prerequisite" seems inconsistent with the other level of wording and use of language within this document. Is there a more appropriate alternative?

        ```csharp
        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create<int>(builder => builder.When(i => i > 10));
        ```

>     - Then - Sets the actual asynchronous callback to be invoked when the Command is executed. This method will be generic if there's a preceding parameter setting (via Given or When).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Then - Sets the asynchronous callback to be invoked when the Command is executed. This method will be generic if there's a preceding parameter setting (via `Given` or `When`).
```

        ```csharp
        public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => Command.Create(builder => builder.Then(async ct => await ExecuteMyCommand(ct)));
        ```

>     Here's a complete example:

Reviewer 4: This doesn't look "complete" as it doesn't show the referenced `CurrentPage` property(?), or `NavigateToPage` method.

    ```csharp
    public IAsyncCommand MyCommand => 
        Command.Create(builder => 
            builder
            .Given(CurrentPage)
            .When(currentPage => currentPage > 0)
            .Then(async (currentPage, ct) => await NavigateToPage(currentPage, ct)));
    ```

> 

Reviewer 4: It seems odd to use the "Given", "When", and "Then" names/pattern (that is so common in testing) without acknowledging this.

Author: @dr1rrb
I second that sentiment.

---
uid: Overview.Mvux.Advanced.Commands
---

# Commands

This page covers the following topics:

- [**What are commands**](#what-are-commands)
- [**Asynchronous commands**](#asynchronous-commands)
- [**Implicit command generation**](#implicit-command-generation)
  - [**Basic Commands**](#basic-commands)
  - [**Using the CommandParameter**](#using-the-commandparameter)
  - [**Additional Feed parameters**](#additional-feed-parameters)
  - [**Command generation rules**](#command-generation-rules)
  - [**Configuring command generation using attributes**](#configuring-command-generation-using-attributes)
- [**Manual command creation using factory methods**](#manual-command-creation-using-factory-methods)

> - [**Cancelling a command**](#cancelling-a-command)

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - [**Cancelling a command**](#cancelling-a-command) -

Reviewer: Does this section on cancelling a command exist?

Author: No, it should be removed. I added an examplanation based on David's description that commands are cancelled upon disposal of Model.
